Every patient's story
starts the same way.
It starts with them being fine.
It starts in the "before."
They cling to this moment,
this memory of being fine,
this before, as though talking about it
may somehow bring it back.
- Long time.
- Naomi.
We got an ICU bed
all ready for him.
But what they don't realize is that
the fact that they're
talking about it to us,
their doctors...
He was fine. We went to lunch...
...means there's no going back.
By the time they see us,
they're already in the "after."
What the hell are you doing?
The interns are broken. They've been
punished for taking out their appendixes
and it's making them hate medicine.
They're lost,
and they've forgotten this thing they
hate is actually a thing they love,
so I'm gonna remind them.
Is this about Denny? Is this some
kind of dead boyfriend art therapy?
This is not about Denny.
It's about the interns.
- Who cares? They're losers...
- They're not!
They're not. They're just... They need
to have a little fun. And so do I.
Where are the damn scissors?
They're right in front of you.
Oh.
- Right.
- Iz...
Will you hand me that large bow, please?
Great. Just put it down.
See? It's gonna be great.
- Does he know how he got the parasite?
- From eating unwashed fruit in Mexico.
- He's bradycardic.
- And hypotensive?
A reaction to the fentanyl drip.
Stop the drip, push Narcan...
Wait! Derek, he was in status.
If you take him off and he seizes,
there could be brain damage.
- Better hope that doesn't happen.
- Hope?
That's what your plan is hinging on?
Hoping the worst doesn't happen?
I'm hoping he's stopped seizing.
If we don't reverse the drip,
his heart is going to arrest.
So unless you have a better idea.
Push the Narcan.
And while every patient's
story starts the same way,
how the story ends...
...depends on us,
on how well we diagnose and treat.
We know the story hinges on us...
He's in v-fib.
Get the crash cart.
...and we all want to be the hero.
Morning, Chief. I heard there was
a guy here with worms in his brain.
Does anyone know the medical term
for worms in the brain?
Dr. Stevens requested you today
for a special project.
OK, take an envelope,
pass the rest back.
Do not open them, you'll need them
for the first game we're gonna play.
That's what we're doing today?
Playing games?
Cheer up.
We are gonna have so much fun!
Don't open! Don't you know
how to play a simple game?
- I did when I was eight.
- Let's just go.
Dr. Bailey's with Addison,
so I'm gonna hand out your assignments.
Addison's in the hospital?
Her brother was admitted
with parasites in his brain.
Addison's brother
has neurocysticercosis?
- See?
- Huh?
That's what I'm taking about!
I cleared my schedule.
- You didn't have to do that. I'm fine.
- Your brother has parasites.
I cleared my schedule.
You cut your hair.
- Yeah.
- I like it. Dr. Miranda Bailey.
I'm sorry.
Miranda, Naomi. Naomi, Miranda.
Naomi's our fertility specialist at
Oceanside and one of my oldest friends.
- Nice to meet you, Miranda.
- How is he?
- I don't know.
- He's groggy.
His eyes are open but I don't think
he's awake. He hasn't tried to kill me.
Her brother hates me.
- People pick sides in a divorce, Derek.
- He picked sides in the marriage.
He first seized during sex with his
girlfriend. Wonder why she's not here?
Oh, she is.
Naomi?
I'm going in there.
- You and Archer?
- No.
Well, yeah.
I don't know. I don't know what we are.
How's Sam?
Sam's good.
And how's... Meredith, is that her name?
She's good.
- Good.
- Yeah.
Look at us. We're making polite
conversation about your girlfriend.
You two are divorced,
me and Sam are divorced.
I'm with Archer, sort of...
What the hell happened?
I mean, you wrote Addison a song, Derek.
Let's forget about the song.
- Enough about the song.
- What?
You wrote her her own love song
and sang it to her at the wedding.
Mark wrote it or Sam. I don't remember.
I do. I was drunk at the time,
but I remember thinking
you were going to last forever.
- We were all gonna last forever.
- Yeah.
You should call Sam. He misses you.
Yeah.
- How'd you sleep?
- Not too well.
- Shoulder pain?
- No. Pain in the ass wife.
I kept him up because I was afraid
my aneurysm was gonna explode
and I was gonna die.
- Hi, I'm Dr. Karev.
- Where's Dr. Grey?
She's supposed to be in my surgery.
She and Dr. Shepherd
got called in on an emergency.
So he's not going to get
to your aneurysm until later.
- Wha... Later when?
- Could be a few hours.
- Could be tomorrow.
- Tomorrow?
She's waited until tomorrow.
Today is tomorrow.
- I'm sorry, who are you?
- I'm her husband.
- I look like this because...
- I ran him over with our car.
Before I knew I had
this huge time bomb in my head.
When I was just a big old pregnant
person waiting for her baby.
So, just... please,
if he could get to me
sooner rather than later...
Um...
- What's the emergency?
- Addison's brother.
Addison's here?
We were having dinner
and he just passed out.
I am telling you,
it is probably just my hernia.
He has an inguinal hernia. It doesn't
seem to be the source of obstruction.
It's gonna take these doctors a long
time to figure this out. I'm fine.
- You gotta go to work.
- He hates it when we try to help him.
He's a lot like
my second graders that way.
OK, Daddy. You win.
I have my cell,
so call me if you need me.
Bye.
I have colorectal cancer.
I've had five polyps removed
in the last three years and radiation.
My daughter doesn't know
and I'd like to keep it that way.
Um... Dr. Yang's going to set you up
for a CT with contrast.
Where have you been treated?
We'll need your records.
Columbia Hospital in Verona.
Dr. Shulty.
I... I work here now.
I saw you were in and I...
You waited till she left
to come in and say hello.
Just like you
to face up to things like a man.
You should tell her about the cancer.
She deserves to know.
You lost the right
to tell me anything about her
when you broke off your engagement
in a two line email.
- What was the next line?
- Can we talk about something else?
- Greatest love song of all time.
- Hey!
You get to the part where
Derek rhymes "gross anatomy class"
with "Addison's fine ass,"
because I wrote that line.
- Oh, my bad.
- No, no, it's fine. I, uh...
I think it sounds like a fine song.
Archie, heard you were gonna let Derek
remove those suckers from your brain.
- Maybe.
- He is.
I hate surgery.
Especially brain surgery.
Yeah.
Being a neurologist you
probably see a lot of patients post-op
- who are scrambled eggs up there...
- You're not helping.
We're sitting here trying
to convince him that surgery is...
Is not an option.
According to these scans,
the single cyst you had on your last CT
has now multiplied by eight,
all clogging the third ventricle.
There's no way I could surgically
navigate through a mess like that
without rupturing one.
So, what does that mean?
You're in a room full of doctors,
who are all being very quiet right now.
I'm gonna die. That's what it means.
Inside each one of your envelopes
is the name of a surgery.
Your task is to drape
your patients accordingly.
On your marks, get set... Go!
Come on, lighten up, this is supposed
to be fun. Don't take it so seriously.
You suck at this! My grandmother
could drape better than you!
- I'm sorry. I'll try to do better...
- No, you're doing great.
I'm trash talking.
I'm having fun. It's just... fun.
What are you...? Woo!
Woo! Woo! Woo!
- Looking good! Good job!
- Done!
- Laparoscopic cholecystectomy
- Yeah, that's good.
- Your next challenge.
- I'm done, too.
A whipple is for pancreatic cancer.
Were you planning on
going in through the mouth?
Start over.
There's just no way, Addie.
Dr. Conroy at Cedars
and Larry at Mayo, they agree...
I've put you in a tiny box.
After the divorce I made you
petty and inconsequential
and nothing special,
so that you could fit
into this tiny, little box
that would help me get out of bed
in the morning.
But now...
...now I have to take you
out of the box
because I need to believe
that you can do this,
that you can save my brother.
I need you to be a god.
Just today. Be a god.
Montgomery, Archer. I'm a friend.
I'm Dr. Miranda Bailey.
I'm a friend of Addison's.
- Which one are you?
- I'm sorry?
Archer is Addison's brother. Archer's
girlfriend is Addison's best friend
who married Derek's best friend
who Derek hasn't spoken to
- since the divorce.
- That would be me.
The ex-husband, Dr. Samuel Bennett.
Sorry, I didn't think the ex-husband
would show up at the ex-wife's
boyfriend's bedside.
Don't worry about it.
Even I don't know why I'm here.
- But... yeah.
- Third floor. Room 3420.
Thank you.
- Dr. Bennett.
- Uh... Sam.
Dr. Shepherd is still studying the scans
looking for a way to operate
but it looks like a difficult case.
Right.
Hey, Addison's brother
probably isn't gonna make it.
- His cysts are inoperable.
- Worms in the brain.
- Not how you want to go.
- I didn't know Addison had a brother.
You'd think Derek would have said
something at some point.
Or sang something
while he played his guitar.
- Speak English.
- Derek used to play guitar.
Owen's ex-fiancée is in the hospital.
Mm-hm. His ex-fiancée
he never told me about.
- What's wrong with her?
- She calls her dad "daddy."
No, what's wrong with her?
Why is she in the hospital?
She isn't. Daddy is.
You should ask Owen
if he plays the guitar.
"Find Dr. Sloan, ask his symptoms,
diagnose him correctly to receive your
next challenge!" What are your symptoms?
Right now, I'm battling a rapid heart
rate, also feeling a little flushed.
I don't even want to mention
what's going on below the belt.
I don't do dirty,
secret flirting with you, anymore.
I told you, if you want
to go public with me, with us,
I will do dirty public flirting.
I mean, I will flirt publicly,
not dirtily...
...maybe a little dirtily.
Please tell me your symptoms
so I can concentrate.
Tachycardia, angioedema, hypotension,
severe chest and abdominal pain,
- difficulty breathing, throat closing.
- Anaphylactic shock!
- Whoa! Whoa. Whoa. whoa. Foul!
- What?
- You heard her answer.
- The whole hospital heard.
You should've kept a distance.
New symptoms. Resume play.
Woo!
You must have questions, so ask.
When was his last polypectomy,
since you're familiar with the patient?
- Not what I meant.
- I know what you meant.
- Dr. Yang, symptoms?
- Not a good time...
Heavy feeling in the abdomen,
accompanied by nausea
and an acute pulling sensation
in the scrotum.
Testicular cancer!
Woo!
- Cristina...
- I have to get Mr. Whitman to the CT.
I wasn't doing anyone
any good at school so...
Owen?
I don't understand. What...?
I work here.
What do you mean?
- Beth.
- When did you get back?
I just saw your mom. She didn't...
I thought you were in Iraq.
I've been praying for you every night.
Every night, I'm on my knees,
praying that
you're gonna make it back,
that you'll make it another 24 hours,
that you... you'll make it home.
Owen, you're back!
- What is she doing?
- It looks like she's praying.
Mm, no... Addie doesn't pray.
- What's she doing?
- Uh, she's praying.
Addison doesn't pray.
She must be hiding.
I can hear you.
I'm not hiding, I am trying to pray,
but I don't know how because I'm a WASP.
We only go to church on Christmas.
You guys go. I got this.
I have no clout with God.
God doesn't even know who I am.
Which sucks, because I could...
...I could use some help.
Dear God, I need your guidance.
- I kissed a peds surgeon.
- You kissed a peds surgeon?
I never thought I'd end up
with a woman. Not until lately.
That's not the problem, the problem
is the peds thing. She's perky...
...and has butterflies
on her scrub cap.
But she's... also hot.
Really hot. So...
...help me get over the butterflies.
Amen.
You're an amazing doctor, you save
babies. God knows who you are.
Do you really believe in all this?
In God?
Sometimes.
Mm. Most of the time.
When it counts.
Your wife's in the chapel, praying.
She's not my wife
and she doesn't pray.
- How are you?
- Hey.
You know, midlife crisis.
I got an earring, but I let
the hole close up the very next day.
- That would have been a good look.
- I met, uh... Meredith.
Uh-huh.
She's not a midlife crisis.
She's the real thing.
That's great. I'm happy for you, man.
- Happy for you.
- Yeah.
- I should have called...
- No.
...stayed in touch. It's my fault.
People move, they change, we all did.
- Yeah.
- So... But, yeah.
She's praying.
Yeah. She's expecting a miracle.
I can't deliver one.
I've seen patients with one cyst
in the ventricle, maybe two.
He has eight.
There is no way
I can get a scope in there
without rupturing one. There's too many.
Maybe you're just too close to it.
What if there were just one?
Explain to me
how you would remove just that one.
110 over 80.
What's the prize for winning?
- They need a prize.
- They're getting a prize.
A really big prize.
- I need a prize.
- What's going on?
Uh, my patients needed a distraction
and Izzie needed real patients.
- How's it going?
- It's going great. We're having fun.
Dr. Grey! Am I going to surgery now?
Could be any time now.
What?
- I can't find it.
- Wh...?
Is something wrong?
Is the baby's heart not beating?
You're on the kid's ass.
The heart's over here.
It's not what you think.
I can guarantee I'm not as much
of an ass as you think I am.
Does your mother know you're back?
Page me when this is done.
Archer, I need to create room in the
ventricle so I can maneuver the scope.
If I deflate each cyst,
the scope can remove them.
The cysts will rupture.
I'm going to grab each one with forceps,
pull it up, suction the fluid.
- Suction would have to be precise.
- It will be.
- You can't do it.
- I think I can.
- Control the way the cyst ruptures?
- No, he can't.
- You want me to go down fighting but...
- Coward.
- Excuse me?
- You're a coward by trade.
You're a neurologist. You feed off us,
refer your patients to us,
let us assume the responsibility,
and if something happens, well...
I can assume the responsibility.
The question is, can you?
- A peds surgery fellowship?
- Yep.
Just when I'm almost done with
general surgery residency. Crazy, huh?
No. Just... surprising.
You don't seem
like a peds person to me.
- Why not?
- Because you don't smile.
- Peds people smile.
- I smile.
Well, I'm not going to smile now.
But I do smile. I smile frequently.
- Hey. He under yet?
- Yeah.
A peds surgery fellowship?
Huh.
I have a child.
I am familiar with children.
I am going to be
an excellent pediatric surgeon!
You're gonna want to keep that temper
in check around the kids.
- Weird seeing Archie on that table.
- Yeah.
Asthma. Looks like I'm low.
Chris, refill this for Dr. Bennett here.
OK.
- Thanks.
- It's good practice.
Asthma's big with the kids.
Say it, Derek. Come on,
say it, say it, say it, say it...
OK, everybody.
It's a beautiful day to save lives.
Scalpel.
- You're gonna have to tell her...
- This is Beth we're talking about.
She worries herself sick when
one of her students gets the sniffles.
She can't handle bad news.
She's a sunshine girl.
And you used to know that about her.
Well, she'll find out eventually.
- Dr. Yang!
- What's going on?
Ruth, call the Chief and reserve an OR.
- Owen?
- It's a...
It's a complication. He needs surgery.
A complication from what?
He's going to be OK.
I'll keep you updated. Let's go.
Entering the third ventricle.
Securing cyst number one.
Deflating cyst one.
Applying suction.
Any sign of the scolex?
There it is.
One at a time.
OK. I need to be distracted.
Someone talk about something other than
what's going on with my brother.
Uh, Mark is good
at talking about himself.
I've been using endoscopy
for head and neck cancer resections.
If I can just
focus the criteria for patients,
I might have a breakthrough on my hands.
- What happened to you?
- He met someone.
Dr. Grey.
Dr. Torres said I had to eat.
I'm sorry.
It's OK. How is it?
It's amazing.
I'm sorry.
It's bland. It's really bland.
I need my surgery now!
What kind of hospital is this?
- How long am I supposed to wait...
- Stop it!
Look... if you don't settle down
your blood pressure's gonna rise
and you're gonna start contracting.
Sorry, because I don't know you,
but you really need to shut up, OK?
All right, look. There.
Look, there's your son's face.
That's what you need to hold on
to for the next couple of hours, OK?
Is that a tumor?
He's gonna need
more aggressive treatment.
- He'll have to tell his daughter now.
- He won't.
Her mother died when she was little. He
feels that's enough sadness for anyone.
He sheltered her, she always had
a nice car, clothes, anything.
She'll find out eventually.
She used to call me in tears when
there was a spider in her apartment.
Became a joke between Michael and I.
Neither of us could be out of town at
the same time in case Beth found a bug.
When he needs to go through chemo
or gets so sick he needs hospice care,
she'll find out when it's already over.
She deserves more than that.
What's the number?
Seven cysts, seven scolices.
OK, one more.
Damn it!
- He's getting bradycardic.
- See if the flow is blocked.
Asystole.
Start the code clock.
- Derek, asystole.
- Where the hell is it?
- Get the crash cart. Compressions!
- No! Stop. Nobody move.
We can't. I have to find the worm.
- But he's...
- We have two, three minutes. Stop.
- How long's he been down?
- Two minutes, twenty seconds.
There.
Got it.
Damn it.
It's starting to tear apart. Maybe if
I rotate and reverse it back. Yeah.
And that's number eight.
Heartrate's coming back up!
OK.
Thank you, everybody. You made
some friends of mine very happy.
Just got out of surgery.
What's going on?
- Any minute.
- She needs a prize.
Big prize, but not too big,
because they did take out their own
appendixes and they're being punished
and you think they're not even qualified
to hold a clamp. So...
Do you have prizes like that?
They got their symptoms
from their final patients.
Get out the finish line,
it's gonna be close.
- Here they come!
- Come on!
Come on, bring it in!
- George?
- Three-way tie.
- Ok, final diagnosis?
- Motion sickness!
- No!
- Dengue Fever!
- Neurocycticercosis!
Ladies and gentlemen, a winner!
Whoo! Ha!
Nicely done.
- Yes!
- Worms?
Wait, what's the prize?
You get to scrub in on Shepherd's
craniotomy and hold the doomsday sucker.
- What's a doomsday sucker?
- Doomsday sucker?
It's just a really big sucker.
Dr. Leone,
call the blood bank.
Dr. Leone, call the blood bank.
It was a hard surgery, some of
the bowel was dead as we suspected,
but we were able to remove
the diseased parts successfully.
He's in recovery.
You can see him in about an hour.
- You don't even look like yourself.
- Excuse me?
You don't.
You look... hard.
And...
Look, I know it wasn't easy over there,
I hear people come back and...
I know you can't just come back
and be normal right away, but...
He'll be asleep for a couple hours.
You can see him now.
Two lines in an email?
I deserve more than that.
Beth, your dad has colorectal cancer.
He's been through radiation treatments
and polyp removals.
He didn't tell you...
...because he didn't
want to burden you.
He'd like to spare you any pain.
Any more pain.
He had all these friends.
They sang and they played guitar.
It's like he was a
totally different person.
He was.
It freaks me out a little bit.
I feel like I don't know him.
Well, I don't know Owen.
We don't. We don't know them.
Sadie. Hey, hold up. Hold up.
I wanted to let you know,
I'm happy to help you, if you'd like.
Reviewing the basics or putting
in supervised skills lab hours.
- Excuse me?
- I was a repeater earlier this year,
I know how easy it is to get behind.
- I don't need a tutor.
- You don't?
- No.
- At this point in your training,
you should be able to
hear symptoms, diagnose the problem
and decide whether or not a patient
needs surgery. Can you do that?
Can you?
Because they think you can.
And they will put you
in situations where you have to.
Sadie, you could hurt someone!
I call her. I call my mother.
Once a week.
I haven't told her I'm back,
she thinks that I'm calling from...
I keep the conversations short.
I can't bear for her to know
that the son
she sent off to war is gone.
He's gone.
And if I just got in my car and drove
six miles to see her she'd be so... sad.
And she would look at me
the same way that Beth does now.
Like I'm not there.
The only time I don't feel
like a ghost is when you look at me.
Because you look at me
and you see me. You see me.
This is me. This... is me.
Please, Cristina, see me.
See me.
Jen, I am so sorry.
I have you scheduled
first thing tomorrow.
Derek. I'm using your first name now.
I like you a lot
and I'm starting to consider us friends,
so I'm using your first name
and calling you Derek. And Derek?
I'm begging you please, please
don't make me wait another night.
- She's good.
- Try being married to her.
You'll never say "no" again.
Dr. Grey.
It would appear that
congratulations are in order.
Thank you, Dr. Sloan.
I'd also like it acknowledged
that I offer these congratulations
professionally and respectfully,
without any innuendo
or inappropriate body language.
Acknowledged, Dr. Sloan. Do you know...
What's a doomsday sucker?
- Addison Montgomery.
- Uh, Lexie Grey.
- Mark. Addie. Little Grey.
- Little Grey? Hmm.
I have to meet you at Joe's in a bit.
I have a craniotomy.
- You're holding the doomsday sucker.
- Now?
- Great. Yes! Yes, sir.
- OR 2. See you there.
Doomsday sucker.
- Can you believe Little Grey and...
- Did you hear?
Derek's going to propose to Meredith.
How about that?
I'm off to surgery.
What?
Hey.
- Iz, what's going on with you?
- Nothing.
I'm fine. You saw.
The interns are not a bunch of losers.
They know things.
They're gonna make good doctors.
Really, I'm fine.
I'm fine.
She knows nothing. Nothing.
She's a danger to the patients. I told
her she could tell the Chief or I could.
I wanted to let you know,
because you're her friend.
Although for the life of me, I don't
know how you two were ever friends.
- What happened?
- I quit.
O'Malley's a little narc.
I'd rather be deemed a quitter
than a cheater.
Did you cheat your way
into the program?
I said I'm not book smart.
You know that.
I learn on my feet.
I thought if I came
to where you were, you could...
Pull you through?
We've seen each other through a lot.
We're not 25
sleeping our way through Europe anymore.
We could, though. Think about it.
- We could get on a plane and go...
- No! No.
I can't. I have to work.
I can't just...
Well, you know...
They've sucked the life
right out of you.
- The Meredith I used to know...
- Is right here.
I'm here.
I don't want to sleep my way through
Europe anymore. I want to be here.
I want to be here.
- Sucker at the ready?
- Sucker's at the ready.
- You're mocking me.
- Only a little.
- Damn it. Damn it!
- What? What happened?
BP's 88 over 60.
Hang two units of blood.
All joking aside, Dr. Grey,
bring in the doomsday sucker.
- OK.
- Right in here. Go right in here.
Oh my God. Wow.
- Temporary clips.
- Wow.
Wow. Wow!
Wow.
Microsutures, please.
BP's 110 over 72.
OK, get the sucker out of there.
Is that it? Did you get it?
There's good flow.
Yes, we did it.
And that will teach me to
never mock an eager young intern again.
- I'm an ass.
- You're such an ass.
I shouldn't have blurted.
- A little warning would've been nice.
- But you're OK?
You know, it's strange. I...
I expected this horrible feeling,
this wave of sadness or something,
to just take over.
But... people get divorced,
they meet new people, they re-marry.
I don't know,
maybe it was seeing Archer in that OR,
it just changed my perspective.
Or something.
But you sort of wished
it had been you first.
Shut it! Are you gonna
tell Derek about the...
Wait. If we called Meredith
the 12-year-old,
- What do we call Lexie? A preschooler?
- She's a woman.
- Oh, OK.
- And I'm gonna tell him.
I'm working on it.
There he is!
That's the kind of welcome I deserve!
- Joe! Scotch for the neuro god!
- You were a god today.
You were a god in that OR. You slew
dragons, you walked on water. You...
You were a god, but now?
Now you need to get very tiny again.
And go back in the box.
- How was your craniotomy?
- It was fine.
- Yeah?
- Yeah, I stopped in on Archer.
Things are good.
Good.
- Oh, God!
- Shut up.
We can't remember the chorus.
We got all the way through the second
verse, your name starts the chorus.
It wasn't "summery."
I'd never use "summery" as a noun.
- "I met her in the summer, she..."
- "Summer, she?" Really?
- Yeah.
- Come on.
Clever.
This is why I don't stay in touch.
Aw, gee.
Yeah, you got it.
Oh, hopeless. Cheers.
Wonderful. God.
- What's happening?
- Page Shepherd. Now!